README.md, before:

# DataScienceLab
The folder Data is not tracked by Git and should contain
a copy of the Data folder available at [Data Shared by Miss McLeod](https://drive.switch.ch/index.php/s/Dk9O9BXu0drKvqU).
Note that this only matters for the default paths in the libraries, if you specify the corresponding
paths by yourself, you can place the files wherever you like.

## code
All of the code is in the `code` folder. 
The folder itself, contains a few jupyter notebooks, which document early experiments.
More detailed experiments were later moved to the corresponding folders:
- `custom_tkinter` contains the code for the beautiful gui
- `decorrelation` contains experiments and documentation of decorrelation (note that decorrelation turned out only to work with a lot of data and only if also a lot of positiv data was in the dataset. Hence decorelation was not used in the final algorithm.)
- `hierarchy` contains experiments (or rather a jupyter notebook set up to conduct experiments) with the hirearchy based algorithms
- `whitness_based` contains experiments (or rather a jupyter notebook set up to conduct experiments) with the witness based algorithms (we are aware of the misspelling, appologies for these mistakes.)
- `zero_cluster_detection` this folder contains experment files for the negative axis / control detection
- `libs` contains all the code which acutally does some computations. See below.

### libs
- `decision_lib` contains all the different algorithm we implemented and tested for point labelling. (The only ones which are use in the final version of the GUI are `cluster_relative_mean_classifier.py` and `whitnes_density_classifier.py` all others were sorted out due to worse performance or pore generalizabilty)
- `data_lib.py` contains code to load and prepare data. This library heavily depends on the structure (hierarchy) of the files and folders in the `Data` folder.
- `negative_dimension_detection.py` Code for detecting negative clusters. (There are multiple algorithms of which only one was used in the GUI)
- `plot_lib.py` everything related to plotting (check it out ;-) its fun)
- `stats_lib.py` computing concentation and statistics after the labelling is done or / and probabilites are computed
- `transform_lib` basically only related to whitening / decorrelation (also contains the cluster class (every library has some bad desing choices))
- `validation_lib` algorithms we used to compare our labels with the "true" labels provided by the challance givers.

## misc
Some of the results we exported to this folder but it's by far not complete due to a lack of self discipline.

## Data
Intended for data but not added to git due to the amount of data.

Commit message:

Add setup comment in readme

README.md, after:

# DataScienceLab
The folder Data is not tracked by Git and should contain
a copy of the Data folder available at [Data Shared by Miss McLeod](https://drive.switch.ch/index.php/s/Dk9O9BXu0drKvqU).
Note that this only matters for the default paths in the libraries, if you specify the corresponding
paths by yourself, you can place the files wherever you like.

## Setup
We tracked packages and versions with [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/). Provided, you installed a python version
3.11 or higher (although only tested for 3.11) the setup should work with the normal poetry commands on windows and linux alike.
Manual setup by hand is not recommended, as the libraries might not be found.

## GUI
A Linux and Windows version of the GUI can be downloaded at [polybox](https://polybox.ethz.ch/index.php/s/d134Fz2yycKbjqL).

## code
All of the code is in the `code` folder. 
The folder itself, contains a few jupyter notebooks, which document early experiments.
More detailed experiments were later moved to the corresponding folders:
- `custom_tkinter` contains the code for the beautiful gui
- `decorrelation` contains experiments and documentation of decorrelation (note that decorrelation turned out only to work with a lot of data and only if also a lot of positiv data was in the dataset. Hence decorelation was not used in the final algorithm.)
- `hierarchy` contains experiments (or rather a jupyter notebook set up to conduct experiments) with the hirearchy based algorithms
- `whitness_based` contains experiments (or rather a jupyter notebook set up to conduct experiments) with the witness based algorithms (we are aware of the misspelling, appologies for these mistakes.)
- `zero_cluster_detection` this folder contains experment files for the negative axis / control detection
- `libs` contains all the code which acutally does some computations. See below.

### libs
- `decision_lib` contains all the different algorithm we implemented and tested for point labelling. (The only ones which are use in the final version of the GUI are `cluster_relative_mean_classifier.py` and `whitnes_density_classifier.py` all others were sorted out due to worse performance or pore generalizabilty)
- `data_lib.py` contains code to load and prepare data. This library heavily depends on the structure (hierarchy) of the files and folders in the `Data` folder.
- `negative_dimension_detection.py` Code for detecting negative clusters. (There are multiple algorithms of which only one was used in the GUI)
- `plot_lib.py` everything related to plotting (check it out ;-) its fun)
- `stats_lib.py` computing concentation and statistics after the labelling is done or / and probabilites are computed
- `transform_lib` basically only related to whitening / decorrelation (also contains the cluster class (every library has some bad desing choices))
- `validation_lib` algorithms we used to compare our labels with the "true" labels provided by the challance givers.

## misc
Some of the results we exported to this folder but it's by far not complete due to a lack of self discipline.

## Data
Intended for data but not added to git due to the amount of data.
